---
date: 2021-03-16
layout: post
title: "Jalopy Design: Print Run"
categories: Tabletop
tags: design jalopy tutorial
image: images/generators.jpg
published: false
---

> I'm like that co-worker who drives an old junker. When you ask them, "How do you keep that thing running?", the advice you get will be useful...but probably no replacement for hiring a real mechanic.

You [finished your zine](/david/2019/11/JalopyZine), layout looks good, the [art is beautiful](/david/2019/08/JalopyResources), and now you want to get some printed copies on store shelves.

Turns out, printing books is expensive! Like...really expensive. So let's look at our options for printing books.

## Option 1: Print & Assemble at home

This option is really----what?

Ben **who**? Ultan's **WHAT**?!

_paper rustling sound effect_

## Option...whatever someone already did this

Yeah, turns out Ben Laurence of Ultan's Door [wrote a great blog post](http://maziriansgarden.blogspot.com/2020/01/so-you-want-to-make-zine-printing.html) about your options for printing zines and books. 

So...instead of copy-pasting everything he wrote let's talk about money. Because in addition to choosing HOW you print your zines, it's important to decide how you'll pay for it.

## Funding Option 1: Seduce a Publisher

Not sure if "seduce" is the word I'm looking for...close enough!

There are a few publishers in our little community who seek out new creators. But I'll be the first to admit that this is tricky. You may have trouble finding a publisher, and even if you DO find one, they're going to take a cut of the sales to recoup their initial investment.

However, if you're lucky enough to find a publisher this is bar far the easiest option for you; just hand them the text and they'll take care of everything else. 

But if you're unlucky or you simply want to keep more of the profits...

## Funding Option 2: Out of Pocket

I know, I know. "David, if I could afford to print a bunch of books I wouldn't have clicked on your weird website." But hear me out.

We think of a "print run" as thousands and thousands of books. But if you're a small creator that can be overwhelming and a risky investment. What if the books don't sell?

In that case, let's try for a narrower scope: say 200 books. That's been a good starter amount for my stuff.

Shops like [Mixam](https://mixam.com/) offer good prices and solid quality; even for smaller print runs.

Yes, smaller print runs cost more per book, BUT it's less cost overall. And if you have good margins then you can roll your profits into future, larger print runs. If those 200 books sell out, then you can use the profits to order another print run, and keep snowballing forward.

As an example: 250 copies of [Tempered Legacy](/tempered-legacy) cost me about $500 at my local print shop. If I can sell 50 copies at $10 each, then I've made back my initial investment and the remaining 200 copies are pure profit!

Of course, the downside is that the books might not sell at all, or it could take a long time to sell all the remaining copies.



> More Jalopy Design articles:
> - [Using CC Artwork](/david/2017/10/CC-artwork-banner)
> - [Google Docs Tips](/david/2017/10/jalopy-design)
> - [Make a Jekyll Blog](/david/2018/10/howto-markdown-blog)
> - [Cool Resources](/david/2019/08/JalopyResources)
> - [Make a Zine](/david/2019/11/JalopyZine)
